Hets is the main analysis tool for the specification
language heterogeneous CASL. Heterogeneous CASL (HetCASL) combines
the specification language CASL with CASL extensions and
sublanguages, as well as completely different logics and even
programming languages such as Haskell, including its module system.
Hets provides parsing, static analysis and proof management
(via development graphs), as well as many other functionalities.

The Hets modules are grouped using hierarchical modules (where modules
can be grouped into folders); we here only discuss the top view on
this hierarchy. For a more detailed background, see Heterogeneous
specification and the heterogeneous tool set
(<http://www.tzi.de/~till/papers/habil.ps>).

The folder "Logic" contains the infrastructure needed for
institution independence. The module "Logic.Logic" contains all
the type classes for interfacing institutions mentioned above,
including the type class 'Logic.Logic.Logic'.  The module
"Logic.Prover" is for the interface to theorem provers,
rewriters, consistency checkers, model checkers.  The data types
'Logic.Prover.Proof_Status' and 'Logic.Prover.Prover' provides the interface to
provers.  In case of a successful proof, also the list of axioms that
have been used in the proof can be returned. 

 Module
"Logic.Comorphism" provides type classes for the various kinds
of mappings between institutions, and module "Logic.Grothendieck"
realizes the Grothendieck institution  and also contains a type
'Logic.Grothendieck.LogicGraph'. This is complemented by folders working in the
heterogeneous level --- the code in modules in these folders is
parameterized over an arbitrary but fixed logic graph. The folder
"Syntax" provides abstract syntax and parsing of heterogeneous
structured specifications. "Static" is for the static analysis,
based on the verification static semantics for Heterogeneous CASL.
'Static.DevGraph' contains the data structures for
heterogeneous development graphs. Finally, the folder "Proofs"
contains an implementation of the proof calculus for heterogeneous
development graphs.


The folders "CASL", "CoCASL", "HasCASL",
"Haskell", "CspCASL", "Modal", "Isabelle"
contain different instances of the type class 'Logic.Logic.Logic' of the
module "Logic.Logic".  These instances always are contained in
a module named /Logic_xxx/, where /xxx/ is the name of
the language at hand.  Since the integration of a new logic into Hets
requires writing a new instantiation of the type class 'Logic.Logic.Logic',
it is advisable to consult the module /Logic_xxx/ (and the modules
imported there) for some logic that is in some sense similar to the new
logic to be integrated.
In particular, we have
implemented the CASL logic in such a way that much of the folder
"CASL" can be re-used for CASL extensions as well; this is
achieved via /holes/ (realized via polymorphic variables) in the
types for signatures, morphisms, abstract syntax etc.  This eases
integration of CASL extensions and keeps the effort quite moderate.

The folder "Comorphisms" contains various comorphisms and other
translations that constitute the logic graph. Note that these modules
can be compiled independently of the logic independent heterogeneous
modules listed above. The module "Comorphisms.LogicList" 
assembles all the logics into one (heterogeneous) list, while
"Comorphisms.LogicGraph" builds up the logic graph,
i.e. it assembles all the (co)morphisms among the logics, 
and also specifies which ones are standard inclusions.
This module also provides a partial union for logics, which is
crucial for the static analysis of unions of specifications
(which may occur explicitly or implicitly).



Last but not least, there are general purpose folders: "ATC"
for conversion from and to the
ATerm format 
(<http://catamaran.labs.cs.uu.nl/twiki/pt/bin/view/Tools/ATermFormat>) 
- most of the
modules have been automatically created using /DriFT/ from the
/utils/ folder. The latter also contains a module
/inlineAxioms/ that can be used to write the axioms for
theoroidal comorphisms in a concise way, namely in the input syntax of
the respective target logic (the identifiers will turn into Haskell
variables and can hence be used for easily producing instances of
axiom schemes). The folder "Common" contains general purpose
libraries, e.g. for sets, maps and relations, and for parsing and
pretty printing. The command line interface is contained in
"Driver", the graphical interface in "GUI". 
